Documentation/vm/slub.rst, before:

.. _slub:

==========================
Short users guide for SLUB
==========================

The basic philosophy of SLUB is very different from SLAB. SLAB
requires rebuilding the kernel to activate debug options for all
slab caches. SLUB always includes full debugging but it is off by default.
SLUB can enable debugging only for selected slabs in order to avoid
an impact on overall system performance which may make a bug more
difficult to find.

In order to switch debugging on one can add an option ``slub_debug``
to the kernel command line. That will enable full debugging for
all slabs.

Typically one would then use the ``slabinfo`` command to get statistical
data and perform operation on the slabs. By default ``slabinfo`` only lists
slabs that have data in them. See "slabinfo -h" for more options when
running the command. ``slabinfo`` can be compiled with
::

	gcc -o slabinfo tools/vm/slabinfo.c

Some of the modes of operation of ``slabinfo`` require that slub debugging
be enabled on the command line. F.e. no tracking information will be
available without debugging on and validation can only partially
be performed if debugging was not switched on.

Some more sophisticated uses of slub_debug:
-------------------------------------------

Parameters may be given to ``slub_debug``. If none is specified then full
debugging is enabled. Format:

slub_debug=<Debug-Options>
	Enable options for all slabs

slub_debug=<Debug-Options>,<slab name1>,<slab name2>,...
	Enable options only for select slabs (no spaces
	after a comma)

Possible debug options are::

	F		Sanity checks on (enables SLAB_DEBUG_CONSISTENCY_CHECKS
			Sorry SLAB legacy issues)
	Z		Red zoning
	P		Poisoning (object and padding)
	U		User tracking (free and alloc)
	T		Trace (please only use on single slabs)
	A		Enable failslab filter mark for the cache
	O		Switch debugging off for caches that would have
			caused higher minimum slab orders
	-		Switch all debugging off (useful if the kernel is
			configured with CONFIG_SLUB_DEBUG_ON)

F.e. in order to boot just with sanity checks and red zoning one would specify::

	slub_debug=FZ

Trying to find an issue in the dentry cache? Try::

	slub_debug=,dentry

to only enable debugging on the dentry cache.  You may use an asterisk at the
end of the slab name, in order to cover all slabs with the same prefix.  For
example, here's how you can poison the dentry cache as well as all kmalloc
slabs::

	slub_debug=P,kmalloc-*,dentry

Red zoning and tracking may realign the slab.  We can just apply sanity checks
to the dentry cache with::

	slub_debug=F,dentry

Debugging options may require the minimum possible slab order to increase as
a result of storing the metadata (for example, caches with PAGE_SIZE object
sizes).  This has a higher liklihood of resulting in slab allocation errors
in low memory situations or if there's high fragmentation of memory.  To
switch off debugging for such caches by default, use::

	slub_debug=O

In case you forgot to enable debugging on the kernel command line: It is
possible to enable debugging manually when the kernel is up. Look at the
contents of::

	/sys/kernel/slab/<slab name>/

Look at the writable files. Writing 1 to them will enable the
corresponding debug option. All options can be set on a slab that does
not contain objects. If the slab already contains objects then sanity checks
and tracing may only be enabled. The other options may cause the realignment
of objects.

Careful with tracing: It may spew out lots of information and never stop if
used on the wrong slab.

Slab merging
============

If no debug options are specified then SLUB may merge similar slabs together
in order to reduce overhead and increase cache hotness of objects.
``slabinfo -a`` displays which slabs were merged together.

Slab validation
===============

SLUB can validate all object if the kernel was booted with slub_debug. In
order to do so you must have the ``slabinfo`` tool. Then you can do
::

	slabinfo -v

which will test all objects. Output will be generated to the syslog.

This also works in a more limited way if boot was without slab debug.
In that case ``slabinfo -v`` simply tests all reachable objects. Usually
these are in the cpu slabs and the partial slabs. Full slabs are not
tracked by SLUB in a non debug situation.

Getting more performance
========================

To some degree SLUB's performance is limited by the need to take the
list_lock once in a while to deal with partial slabs. That overhead is
governed by the order of the allocation for each slab. The allocations
can be influenced by kernel parameters:

.. slub_min_objects=x		(default 4)
.. slub_min_order=x		(default 0)
.. slub_max_order=x		(default 3 (PAGE_ALLOC_COSTLY_ORDER))

``slub_min_objects``
	allows to specify how many objects must at least fit into one
	slab in order for the allocation order to be acceptable.  In
	general slub will be able to perform this number of
	allocations on a slab without consulting centralized resources
	(list_lock) where contention may occur.

``slub_min_order``
	specifies a minimum order of slabs. A similar effect like
	``slub_min_objects``.

``slub_max_order``
	specified the order at which ``slub_min_objects`` should no
	longer be checked. This is useful to avoid SLUB trying to
	generate super large order pages to fit ``slub_min_objects``
	of a slab cache with large object sizes into one high order
	page. Setting command line parameter
	``debug_guardpage_minorder=N`` (N > 0), forces setting
	``slub_max_order`` to 0, what cause minimum possible order of
	slabs allocation.

SLUB Debug output
=================

Here is a sample of slub debug output::

 ====================================================================
 BUG kmalloc-8: Redzone overwritten
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

 INFO: 0xc90f6d28-0xc90f6d2b. First byte 0x00 instead of 0xcc
 INFO: Slab 0xc528c530 flags=0x400000c3 inuse=61 fp=0xc90f6d58
 INFO: Object 0xc90f6d20 @offset=3360 fp=0xc90f6d58
 INFO: Allocated in get_modalias+0x61/0xf5 age=53 cpu=1 pid=554

 Bytes b4 0xc90f6d10:  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a ........ZZZZZZZZ
   Object 0xc90f6d20:  31 30 31 39 2e 30 30 35                         1019.005
  Redzone 0xc90f6d28:  00 cc cc cc                                     .
  Padding 0xc90f6d50:  5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a                         ZZZZZZZZ

   [<c010523d>] dump_trace+0x63/0x1eb
   [<c01053df>] show_trace_log_lvl+0x1a/0x2f
   [<c010601d>] show_trace+0x12/0x14
   [<c0106035>] dump_stack+0x16/0x18
   [<c017e0fa>] object_err+0x143/0x14b
   [<c017e2cc>] check_object+0x66/0x234
   [<c017eb43>] __slab_free+0x239/0x384
   [<c017f446>] kfree+0xa6/0xc6
   [<c02e2335>] get_modalias+0xb9/0xf5
   [<c02e23b7>] dmi_dev_uevent+0x27/0x3c
   [<c027866a>] dev_uevent+0x1ad/0x1da
   [<c0205024>] kobject_uevent_env+0x20a/0x45b
   [<c020527f>] kobject_uevent+0xa/0xf
   [<c02779f1>] store_uevent+0x4f/0x58
   [<c027758e>] dev_attr_store+0x29/0x2f
   [<c01bec4f>] sysfs_write_file+0x16e/0x19c
   [<c0183ba7>] vfs_write+0xd1/0x15a
   [<c01841d7>] sys_write+0x3d/0x72
   [<c0104112>] sysenter_past_esp+0x5f/0x99
   [<b7f7b410>] 0xb7f7b410
   =======================

 FIX kmalloc-8: Restoring Redzone 0xc90f6d28-0xc90f6d2b=0xcc

If SLUB encounters a corrupted object (full detection requires the kernel
to be booted with slub_debug) then the following output will be dumped
into the syslog:

1. Description of the problem encountered

   This will be a message in the system log starting with::

     ===============================================
     BUG <slab cache affected>: <What went wrong>
     -----------------------------------------------

     INFO: <corruption start>-<corruption_end> <more info>
     INFO: Slab <address> <slab information>
     INFO: Object <address> <object information>
     INFO: Allocated in <kernel function> age=<jiffies since alloc> cpu=<allocated by
	cpu> pid=<pid of the process>
     INFO: Freed in <kernel function> age=<jiffies since free> cpu=<freed by cpu>
	pid=<pid of the process>

   (Object allocation / free information is only available if SLAB_STORE_USER is
   set for the slab. slub_debug sets that option)

2. The object contents if an object was involved.

   Various types of lines can follow the BUG SLUB line:

   Bytes b4 <address> : <bytes>
	Shows a few bytes before the object where the problem was detected.
	Can be useful if the corruption does not stop with the start of the
	object.

   Object <address> : <bytes>
	The bytes of the object. If the object is inactive then the bytes
	typically contain poison values. Any non-poison value shows a
	corruption by a write after free.

   Redzone <address> : <bytes>
	The Redzone following the object. The Redzone is used to detect
	writes after the object. All bytes should always have the same
	value. If there is any deviation then it is due to a write after
	the object boundary.

	(Redzone information is only available if SLAB_RED_ZONE is set.
	slub_debug sets that option)

   Padding <address> : <bytes>
	Unused data to fill up the space in order to get the next object
	properly aligned. In the debug case we make sure that there are
	at least 4 bytes of padding. This allows the detection of writes
	before the object.

3. A stackdump

   The stackdump describes the location where the error was detected. The cause
   of the corruption is may be more likely found by looking at the function that
   allocated or freed the object.

4. Report on how the problem was dealt with in order to ensure the continued
   operation of the system.

   These are messages in the system log beginning with::

	FIX <slab cache affected>: <corrective action taken>

   In the above sample SLUB found that the Redzone of an active object has
   been overwritten. Here a string of 8 characters was written into a slab that
   has the length of 8 characters. However, a 8 character string needs a
   terminating 0. That zero has overwritten the first byte of the Redzone field.
   After reporting the details of the issue encountered the FIX SLUB message
   tells us that SLUB has restored the Redzone to its proper value and then
   system operations continue.

Emergency operations
====================

Minimal debugging (sanity checks alone) can be enabled by booting with::

	slub_debug=F

This will be generally be enough to enable the resiliency features of slub
which will keep the system running even if a bad kernel component will
keep corrupting objects. This may be important for production systems.
Performance will be impacted by the sanity checks and there will be a
continual stream of error messages to the syslog but no additional memory
will be used (unlike full debugging).

No guarantees. The kernel component still needs to be fixed. Performance
may be optimized further by locating the slab that experiences corruption
and enabling debugging only for that cache

I.e.::

	slub_debug=F,dentry

If the corruption occurs by writing after the end of the object then it
may be advisable to enable a Redzone to avoid corrupting the beginning
of other objects::

	slub_debug=FZ,dentry

Extended slabinfo mode and plotting
===================================

The ``slabinfo`` tool has a special 'extended' ('-X') mode that includes:
 - Slabcache Totals
 - Slabs sorted by size (up to -N <num> slabs, default 1)
 - Slabs sorted by loss (up to -N <num> slabs, default 1)

Additionally, in this mode ``slabinfo`` does not dynamically scale
sizes (G/M/K) and reports everything in bytes (this functionality is
also available to other slabinfo modes via '-B' option) which makes
reporting more precise and accurate. Moreover, in some sense the `-X'
mode also simplifies the analysis of slabs' behaviour, because its
output can be plotted using the ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script. So it
pushes the analysis from looking through the numbers (tons of numbers)
to something easier -- visual analysis.

To generate plots:

a) collect slabinfo extended records, for example::

	while [ 1 ]; do slabinfo -X >> FOO_STATS; sleep 1; done

b) pass stats file(-s) to ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script::

	slabinfo-gnuplot.sh FOO_STATS [FOO_STATS2 .. FOO_STATSN]

   The ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script will pre-processes the collected records
   and generates 3 png files (and 3 pre-processing cache files) per STATS
   file:
   - Slabcache Totals: FOO_STATS-totals.png
   - Slabs sorted by size: FOO_STATS-slabs-by-size.png
   - Slabs sorted by loss: FOO_STATS-slabs-by-loss.png

Another use case, when ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` can be useful, is when you
need to compare slabs' behaviour "prior to" and "after" some code
modification.  To help you out there, ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script
can 'merge' the `Slabcache Totals` sections from different
measurements. To visually compare N plots:

a) Collect as many STATS1, STATS2, .. STATSN files as you need::

	while [ 1 ]; do slabinfo -X >> STATS<X>; sleep 1; done

b) Pre-process those STATS files::

	slabinfo-gnuplot.sh STATS1 STATS2 .. STATSN

c) Execute ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` in '-t' mode, passing all of the
   generated pre-processed \*-totals::

	slabinfo-gnuplot.sh -t STATS1-totals STATS2-totals .. STATSN-totals

   This will produce a single plot (png file).

   Plots, expectedly, can be large so some fluctuations or small spikes
   can go unnoticed. To deal with that, ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` has two
   options to 'zoom-in'/'zoom-out':

   a) ``-s %d,%d`` -- overwrites the default image width and heigh
   b) ``-r %d,%d`` -- specifies a range of samples to use (for example,
      in ``slabinfo -X >> FOO_STATS; sleep 1;`` case, using a ``-r
      40,60`` range will plot only samples collected between 40th and
      60th seconds).

Christoph Lameter, May 30, 2007
Sergey Senozhatsky, October 23, 2015

Commit message:

mm, slub: extend slub_debug syntax for multiple blocks
Patch series "slub_debug fixes and improvements".

The slub_debug kernel boot parameter can either apply a single set of
options to all caches or a list of caches.  There is a use case where
debugging is applied for all caches and then disabled at runtime for
specific caches, for performance and memory consumption reasons [1].  As
runtime changes are dangerous, extend the boot parameter syntax so that
multiple blocks of either global or slab-specific options can be
specified, with blocks delimited by ';'.  This will also support the use
case of [1] without runtime changes.

For details see the updated Documentation/vm/slub.rst

[1] https://lore.kernel.org/r/1383cd32-1ddc-4dac-b5f8-9c42282fa81c@codeaurora.org

Link: http://lkml.kernel.org/r/20200610163135.17364-2-vbabka@suse.cz
Signed-off-by: Vlastimil Babka <vbabka@suse.cz>
Reviewed-by: Kees Cook <keescook@chromium.org>
Cc: Christoph Lameter <cl@linux.com>
Cc: Jann Horn <jannh@google.com>
Cc: Roman Gushchin <guro@fb.com>
Cc: Vijayanand Jitta <vjitta@codeaurora.org>
Cc: Pekka Enberg <penberg@kernel.org>
Cc: David Rientjes <rientjes@google.com>
Cc: Joonsoo Kim <iamjoonsoo.kim@lge.com>
Signed-off-by: Andrew Morton <akpm@linux-foundation.org>
Signed-off-by: Stephen Rothwell <sfr@canb.auug.org.au>

Documentation/vm/slub.rst, after:

.. _slub:

==========================
Short users guide for SLUB
==========================

The basic philosophy of SLUB is very different from SLAB. SLAB
requires rebuilding the kernel to activate debug options for all
slab caches. SLUB always includes full debugging but it is off by default.
SLUB can enable debugging only for selected slabs in order to avoid
an impact on overall system performance which may make a bug more
difficult to find.

In order to switch debugging on one can add an option ``slub_debug``
to the kernel command line. That will enable full debugging for
all slabs.

Typically one would then use the ``slabinfo`` command to get statistical
data and perform operation on the slabs. By default ``slabinfo`` only lists
slabs that have data in them. See "slabinfo -h" for more options when
running the command. ``slabinfo`` can be compiled with
::

	gcc -o slabinfo tools/vm/slabinfo.c

Some of the modes of operation of ``slabinfo`` require that slub debugging
be enabled on the command line. F.e. no tracking information will be
available without debugging on and validation can only partially
be performed if debugging was not switched on.

Some more sophisticated uses of slub_debug:
-------------------------------------------

Parameters may be given to ``slub_debug``. If none is specified then full
debugging is enabled. Format:

slub_debug=<Debug-Options>
	Enable options for all slabs

slub_debug=<Debug-Options>,<slab name1>,<slab name2>,...
	Enable options only for select slabs (no spaces
	after a comma)

Multiple blocks of options for all slabs or selected slabs can be given, with
blocks of options delimited by ';'. The last of "all slabs" blocks is applied
to all slabs except those that match one of the "select slabs" block. Options
of the first "select slabs" blocks that matches the slab's name are applied.

Possible debug options are::

	F		Sanity checks on (enables SLAB_DEBUG_CONSISTENCY_CHECKS
			Sorry SLAB legacy issues)
	Z		Red zoning
	P		Poisoning (object and padding)
	U		User tracking (free and alloc)
	T		Trace (please only use on single slabs)
	A		Enable failslab filter mark for the cache
	O		Switch debugging off for caches that would have
			caused higher minimum slab orders
	-		Switch all debugging off (useful if the kernel is
			configured with CONFIG_SLUB_DEBUG_ON)

F.e. in order to boot just with sanity checks and red zoning one would specify::

	slub_debug=FZ

Trying to find an issue in the dentry cache? Try::

	slub_debug=,dentry

to only enable debugging on the dentry cache.  You may use an asterisk at the
end of the slab name, in order to cover all slabs with the same prefix.  For
example, here's how you can poison the dentry cache as well as all kmalloc
slabs::

	slub_debug=P,kmalloc-*,dentry

Red zoning and tracking may realign the slab.  We can just apply sanity checks
to the dentry cache with::

	slub_debug=F,dentry

Debugging options may require the minimum possible slab order to increase as
a result of storing the metadata (for example, caches with PAGE_SIZE object
sizes).  This has a higher liklihood of resulting in slab allocation errors
in low memory situations or if there's high fragmentation of memory.  To
switch off debugging for such caches by default, use::

	slub_debug=O

You can apply different options to different list of slab names, using blocks
of options. This will enable red zoning for dentry and user tracking for
kmalloc. All other slabs will not get any debugging enabled::

	slub_debug=Z,dentry;U,kmalloc-*

You can also enable options (e.g. sanity checks and poisoning) for all caches
except some that are deemed too performance critical and don't need to be
debugged by specifying global debug options followed by a list of slab names
with "-" as options::

	slub_debug=FZ;-,zs_handle,zspage

In case you forgot to enable debugging on the kernel command line: It is
possible to enable debugging manually when the kernel is up. Look at the
contents of::

	/sys/kernel/slab/<slab name>/

Look at the writable files. Writing 1 to them will enable the
corresponding debug option. All options can be set on a slab that does
not contain objects. If the slab already contains objects then sanity checks
and tracing may only be enabled. The other options may cause the realignment
of objects.

Careful with tracing: It may spew out lots of information and never stop if
used on the wrong slab.

Slab merging
============

If no debug options are specified then SLUB may merge similar slabs together
in order to reduce overhead and increase cache hotness of objects.
``slabinfo -a`` displays which slabs were merged together.

Slab validation
===============

SLUB can validate all object if the kernel was booted with slub_debug. In
order to do so you must have the ``slabinfo`` tool. Then you can do
::

	slabinfo -v

which will test all objects. Output will be generated to the syslog.

This also works in a more limited way if boot was without slab debug.
In that case ``slabinfo -v`` simply tests all reachable objects. Usually
these are in the cpu slabs and the partial slabs. Full slabs are not
tracked by SLUB in a non debug situation.

Getting more performance
========================

To some degree SLUB's performance is limited by the need to take the
list_lock once in a while to deal with partial slabs. That overhead is
governed by the order of the allocation for each slab. The allocations
can be influenced by kernel parameters:

.. slub_min_objects=x		(default 4)
.. slub_min_order=x		(default 0)
.. slub_max_order=x		(default 3 (PAGE_ALLOC_COSTLY_ORDER))

``slub_min_objects``
	allows to specify how many objects must at least fit into one
	slab in order for the allocation order to be acceptable.  In
	general slub will be able to perform this number of
	allocations on a slab without consulting centralized resources
	(list_lock) where contention may occur.

``slub_min_order``
	specifies a minimum order of slabs. A similar effect like
	``slub_min_objects``.

``slub_max_order``
	specified the order at which ``slub_min_objects`` should no
	longer be checked. This is useful to avoid SLUB trying to
	generate super large order pages to fit ``slub_min_objects``
	of a slab cache with large object sizes into one high order
	page. Setting command line parameter
	``debug_guardpage_minorder=N`` (N > 0), forces setting
	``slub_max_order`` to 0, what cause minimum possible order of
	slabs allocation.

SLUB Debug output
=================

Here is a sample of slub debug output::

 ====================================================================
 BUG kmalloc-8: Redzone overwritten
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

 INFO: 0xc90f6d28-0xc90f6d2b. First byte 0x00 instead of 0xcc
 INFO: Slab 0xc528c530 flags=0x400000c3 inuse=61 fp=0xc90f6d58
 INFO: Object 0xc90f6d20 @offset=3360 fp=0xc90f6d58
 INFO: Allocated in get_modalias+0x61/0xf5 age=53 cpu=1 pid=554

 Bytes b4 0xc90f6d10:  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a ........ZZZZZZZZ
   Object 0xc90f6d20:  31 30 31 39 2e 30 30 35                         1019.005
  Redzone 0xc90f6d28:  00 cc cc cc                                     .
  Padding 0xc90f6d50:  5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a 5a                         ZZZZZZZZ

   [<c010523d>] dump_trace+0x63/0x1eb
   [<c01053df>] show_trace_log_lvl+0x1a/0x2f
   [<c010601d>] show_trace+0x12/0x14
   [<c0106035>] dump_stack+0x16/0x18
   [<c017e0fa>] object_err+0x143/0x14b
   [<c017e2cc>] check_object+0x66/0x234
   [<c017eb43>] __slab_free+0x239/0x384
   [<c017f446>] kfree+0xa6/0xc6
   [<c02e2335>] get_modalias+0xb9/0xf5
   [<c02e23b7>] dmi_dev_uevent+0x27/0x3c
   [<c027866a>] dev_uevent+0x1ad/0x1da
   [<c0205024>] kobject_uevent_env+0x20a/0x45b
   [<c020527f>] kobject_uevent+0xa/0xf
   [<c02779f1>] store_uevent+0x4f/0x58
   [<c027758e>] dev_attr_store+0x29/0x2f
   [<c01bec4f>] sysfs_write_file+0x16e/0x19c
   [<c0183ba7>] vfs_write+0xd1/0x15a
   [<c01841d7>] sys_write+0x3d/0x72
   [<c0104112>] sysenter_past_esp+0x5f/0x99
   [<b7f7b410>] 0xb7f7b410
   =======================

 FIX kmalloc-8: Restoring Redzone 0xc90f6d28-0xc90f6d2b=0xcc

If SLUB encounters a corrupted object (full detection requires the kernel
to be booted with slub_debug) then the following output will be dumped
into the syslog:

1. Description of the problem encountered

   This will be a message in the system log starting with::

     ===============================================
     BUG <slab cache affected>: <What went wrong>
     -----------------------------------------------

     INFO: <corruption start>-<corruption_end> <more info>
     INFO: Slab <address> <slab information>
     INFO: Object <address> <object information>
     INFO: Allocated in <kernel function> age=<jiffies since alloc> cpu=<allocated by
	cpu> pid=<pid of the process>
     INFO: Freed in <kernel function> age=<jiffies since free> cpu=<freed by cpu>
	pid=<pid of the process>

   (Object allocation / free information is only available if SLAB_STORE_USER is
   set for the slab. slub_debug sets that option)

2. The object contents if an object was involved.

   Various types of lines can follow the BUG SLUB line:

   Bytes b4 <address> : <bytes>
	Shows a few bytes before the object where the problem was detected.
	Can be useful if the corruption does not stop with the start of the
	object.

   Object <address> : <bytes>
	The bytes of the object. If the object is inactive then the bytes
	typically contain poison values. Any non-poison value shows a
	corruption by a write after free.

   Redzone <address> : <bytes>
	The Redzone following the object. The Redzone is used to detect
	writes after the object. All bytes should always have the same
	value. If there is any deviation then it is due to a write after
	the object boundary.

	(Redzone information is only available if SLAB_RED_ZONE is set.
	slub_debug sets that option)

   Padding <address> : <bytes>
	Unused data to fill up the space in order to get the next object
	properly aligned. In the debug case we make sure that there are
	at least 4 bytes of padding. This allows the detection of writes
	before the object.

3. A stackdump

   The stackdump describes the location where the error was detected. The cause
   of the corruption is may be more likely found by looking at the function that
   allocated or freed the object.

4. Report on how the problem was dealt with in order to ensure the continued
   operation of the system.

   These are messages in the system log beginning with::

	FIX <slab cache affected>: <corrective action taken>

   In the above sample SLUB found that the Redzone of an active object has
   been overwritten. Here a string of 8 characters was written into a slab that
   has the length of 8 characters. However, a 8 character string needs a
   terminating 0. That zero has overwritten the first byte of the Redzone field.
   After reporting the details of the issue encountered the FIX SLUB message
   tells us that SLUB has restored the Redzone to its proper value and then
   system operations continue.

Emergency operations
====================

Minimal debugging (sanity checks alone) can be enabled by booting with::

	slub_debug=F

This will be generally be enough to enable the resiliency features of slub
which will keep the system running even if a bad kernel component will
keep corrupting objects. This may be important for production systems.
Performance will be impacted by the sanity checks and there will be a
continual stream of error messages to the syslog but no additional memory
will be used (unlike full debugging).

No guarantees. The kernel component still needs to be fixed. Performance
may be optimized further by locating the slab that experiences corruption
and enabling debugging only for that cache

I.e.::

	slub_debug=F,dentry

If the corruption occurs by writing after the end of the object then it
may be advisable to enable a Redzone to avoid corrupting the beginning
of other objects::

	slub_debug=FZ,dentry

Extended slabinfo mode and plotting
===================================

The ``slabinfo`` tool has a special 'extended' ('-X') mode that includes:
 - Slabcache Totals
 - Slabs sorted by size (up to -N <num> slabs, default 1)
 - Slabs sorted by loss (up to -N <num> slabs, default 1)

Additionally, in this mode ``slabinfo`` does not dynamically scale
sizes (G/M/K) and reports everything in bytes (this functionality is
also available to other slabinfo modes via '-B' option) which makes
reporting more precise and accurate. Moreover, in some sense the `-X'
mode also simplifies the analysis of slabs' behaviour, because its
output can be plotted using the ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script. So it
pushes the analysis from looking through the numbers (tons of numbers)
to something easier -- visual analysis.

To generate plots:

a) collect slabinfo extended records, for example::

	while [ 1 ]; do slabinfo -X >> FOO_STATS; sleep 1; done

b) pass stats file(-s) to ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script::

	slabinfo-gnuplot.sh FOO_STATS [FOO_STATS2 .. FOO_STATSN]

   The ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script will pre-processes the collected records
   and generates 3 png files (and 3 pre-processing cache files) per STATS
   file:
   - Slabcache Totals: FOO_STATS-totals.png
   - Slabs sorted by size: FOO_STATS-slabs-by-size.png
   - Slabs sorted by loss: FOO_STATS-slabs-by-loss.png

Another use case, when ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` can be useful, is when you
need to compare slabs' behaviour "prior to" and "after" some code
modification.  To help you out there, ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` script
can 'merge' the `Slabcache Totals` sections from different
measurements. To visually compare N plots:

a) Collect as many STATS1, STATS2, .. STATSN files as you need::

	while [ 1 ]; do slabinfo -X >> STATS<X>; sleep 1; done

b) Pre-process those STATS files::

	slabinfo-gnuplot.sh STATS1 STATS2 .. STATSN

c) Execute ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` in '-t' mode, passing all of the
   generated pre-processed \*-totals::

	slabinfo-gnuplot.sh -t STATS1-totals STATS2-totals .. STATSN-totals

   This will produce a single plot (png file).

   Plots, expectedly, can be large so some fluctuations or small spikes
   can go unnoticed. To deal with that, ``slabinfo-gnuplot.sh`` has two
   options to 'zoom-in'/'zoom-out':

   a) ``-s %d,%d`` -- overwrites the default image width and heigh
   b) ``-r %d,%d`` -- specifies a range of samples to use (for example,
      in ``slabinfo -X >> FOO_STATS; sleep 1;`` case, using a ``-r
      40,60`` range will plot only samples collected between 40th and
      60th seconds).

Christoph Lameter, May 30, 2007
Sergey Senozhatsky, October 23, 2015
