Documentation/hwmon/corsair-cpro.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Kernel driver corsair-cpro
==========================

Supported devices:

  * Corsair Commander Pro
  * Corsair Commander Pro (1000D)

Author: Marius Zachmann

Description
-----------

This driver implements the sysfs interface for the Corsair Commander Pro.
The Corsair Commander Pro is a USB device with 6 fan connectors,
4 temperature sensor connectors and 2 Corsair LED connectors.
It can read the voltage levels on the SATA power connector.

Usage Notes
-----------

Since it is a USB device, hotswapping is possible. The device is autodetected.

Sysfs entries
-------------

======================= =====================================================================
in0_input		Voltage on SATA 12v
in1_input		Voltage on SATA 5v
in2_input		Voltage on SATA 3.3v
temp[1-4]_input		Temperature on connected temperature sensors
fan[1-6]_input		Connected fan rpm.
fan[1-6]_label		Shows fan type as detected by the device.
fan[1-6]_target		Sets fan speed target rpm.
			When reading, it reports the last value if it was set by the driver.
			Otherwise returns 0.
pwm[1-6]		Sets the fan speed. Values from 0-255.
			When reading, it reports the last value if it was set by the driver.
			Otherwise returns 0.
======================= =====================================================================

Commit message:

hwmon: (corsair-cpro) add reading pwm values
This adds the possibility for reading pwm values.
These can not be read if the device is controlled via
fan_target or a fan curve and will return an error in
this case. Since an error is expected, this adds some
rudimentary error handling.

Changes:
- add CTL_GET_FAN_PWM and use it via get_data
- pwm returns -ENODATA if the device returns error 0x12
- fan_target now returns -ENODATA when the driver is
  started or a pwm value is set.
- add ccp_get_errno to determine errno from device error.
- get_data now has a parameter to determine whether
  to read one or two bytes of data.
- update documentation
- fix missing surname in MAINTAINERS

Signed-off-by: Marius Zachmann <mail@mariuszachmann.de>
Signed-off-by: Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>

Documentation/hwmon/corsair-cpro.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Kernel driver corsair-cpro
==========================

Supported devices:

  * Corsair Commander Pro
  * Corsair Commander Pro (1000D)

Author: Marius Zachmann

Description
-----------

This driver implements the sysfs interface for the Corsair Commander Pro.
The Corsair Commander Pro is a USB device with 6 fan connectors,
4 temperature sensor connectors and 2 Corsair LED connectors.
It can read the voltage levels on the SATA power connector.

Usage Notes
-----------

Since it is a USB device, hotswapping is possible. The device is autodetected.

Sysfs entries
-------------

======================= =====================================================================
in0_input		Voltage on SATA 12v
in1_input		Voltage on SATA 5v
in2_input		Voltage on SATA 3.3v
temp[1-4]_input		Temperature on connected temperature sensors
fan[1-6]_input		Connected fan rpm.
fan[1-6]_label		Shows fan type as detected by the device.
fan[1-6]_target		Sets fan speed target rpm.
			When reading, it reports the last value if it was set by the driver.
			Otherwise returns an error.
pwm[1-6]		Sets the fan speed. Values from 0-255. Can only be read if pwm
			was set directly.
======================= =====================================================================
